>> Bianca: Binary search trees, they
are pretty exciting, they are a hot topic
in the interview questions circuit.
A binary search tree is just a binary
tree, we were working with binary trees
before the decision tree with yes and
no, except that
the sub-tree has to be less than the node.
So here's 19, everything in
the sub-tree is gonna be less, and
everything in the right sub-tree
is gonna be greater than.
And that's gonna be true recursively
through the tree because that's sort of
the nature of these trees.
So everything to the left
of 11 is gonna be smaller,
everything to the right
of 11 is gonna be larger.
I always think like left lower and
then right gr, with an R,
capital, greater to help me remember
which one's less and which one's more.
>> Speaker 2: And this is only,
you would use this if your indexes then or
something like that?
Or you're-
>> Bianca: You will use-
>> Speaker 2: Storing something
relationships move the indexes?
>> Bianca: Basically,
this is a way to search quickly.
>> Speaker 2: Okay
>> Bianca: It has dynamic, so
you can add and
remove nodes versus an array adding
something into sort of
an array can be slow, right?
>> Bianca: Cool.
>> Speaker 2: So they're created,
when are they created then,
like when would they be created?
After you've done like
let's say to organize some
data to make it easily searchable.
Is why you would do while you
have it like this or what?
>> Bianca: Yeah, yeah, so
usually out of the box,
it doesn't come as a binary search tree so
would need to decide if that's
an optimization that need and
it's nice if you need to add more
data later you can really easily.
So you have a list of numbers and
you need to see if this integer
exists in that list super quickly,
and also have it be dynamic as well,
when you wanna insert and delete, cool.
So here we have a binary search tree.
Here is the code for it right,
we have a root and each node has a value,
a left and a right, cool.
So that's just the binary tree except
that we have to follow some rules, right?
So the left has to be lower and
the right has to be greater.